Improving data sharing will enable timely access to data, enhance the quality of data, and create clear channels for better management decisions.  Healthy aquatic habitat is critical to fishes, aquatic species, and water quality. Across the US, long-term large-scale stream habitat monitoring programs collect data for their specific objectives and within their jurisdictional boundaries.  Streams cross jurisdictional boundaries and face unprecedented pressure from changing climate, multi-use public lands, and development. To meet these stressors, we need a way to integrate data from multiple sources to create indicators of stream conditions across jurisdictional boundaries. As a pilot, we will focus on integrating data from the EPA National Aquatic Resources Surveys (NARS); BLM Aquatic Assessment, Inventory, and Monitoring; and USFS Aquatic and Riparian Effective Monitoring Program (AREMP) and Pacfish/Infish Biological Opinion Effectiveness Monitoring Program (PIBO). We will build infrastructure to integrate a subset of metrics collected on public lands in the Western United States and document metadata in MonitoringResources.org.

Here we document the code to orginize and pull the data from the published sorces online. The metadata assoicate with each of the data sources is documented in the USGS ScienceBase ADD THE LINK TO THE SCIENCEBASE DOCUMENTATION

We used the data exchange specifications documented in the GitHub Repository <a href='https://github.com/rascully/Stream-Monitoring-Data-Exchange-Specifications'> Stream Monitoring Data Exchange Specifications </a>. We share code to build an analysis package and find and download data from the intergrated dataset in the GitHub Repository <a href='https://github.com/rascully/stream-habitat-bap'> Stream Habitat Biological Analysis Package (BAP)</a>. 

